In this video you're going to learn how to spy on your outwards competitors with an amazing free tool
called Spy food.
Now this will tell you a ton of information like how much they're even spending on ad words per month.
What are the key words that they're spending the most money on and what are their most profitable keywords.
And this is incredible information to know because you can really look at their strategy.
They've obviously spent a lot of money trying to figure this stuff.
And you can really take it in and apply it to your own business and that will cut and the learning curve
incredibly for you.
And also it just helps you become a lot more profitable quicker because you don't have to go through
all the mistakes actually you want to model the competition and this tool will give you that inside
information that they don't even reveal to themselves.
And I can show you how they get from this information.
It's really really smart.
So the first step and really only step to use this tool is to enter your competitors Web site to get
started.
So you might be not clear on who your competitors are.
So what you want to do is come into Google and then type in your product name and you know the topic
that you want to appear at the search engines or rank 4.
And then up are going to pop the competitors in the ads here.
So these people are already spending money on google adwords.
That's why they're appearing here at the top of his search results and we can see it on the side.
So what you can do is just even take the top result to get started.
Copy that and then paste it into the tool.
Now this is where it gets really cool because we can see a monthly over me overview of this particular
domain.
So over here on the left hand side we can see the organic search.
So these are the terms that they are appearing in the search engines for organically without paying
for this is through their SEO and we can see that their ranking for 7000 keywords that brings them an
estimated estimate of monthly clicks of 50 guys and clicks on that is worth a value of them estimated
of 140000.
Now that is incredible to show because even if you're working in a studio you can show the value of
it to a different company that you start to work for you can show them to say look your competitors
or any of these keywords.
This is estimated what's of value to them for.
So that's really incredible to know when you can even come in and open up this report.
And that would add even logging in an absolutely free you can see the top of most valuable keywords
for them that they run for for free.
You can even see the positions of those and roughly Hamlet.
Much that is worth for them.
Now you do obviously have to log in or maybe sign up to see all the results.
But I still think this is incredible information to get for free.
It really is a remarkable tool.
Now that is kind of we get some information here about had their ranking in the search engines using
a CEO for free now over on the right hand side we have a really information about their paid search.
These are the keywords that they're actually paying to be at the top of the search results for it.
And the cool thing here is really interesting to know straight away is that they are only paying for
seven hundred keywords so you can look across and you can see why that's actually like almost exactly
10 percent.
And so these must be the most valuable keywords if they are paying for these.
These must be the most profitable for them to appear at the top of their search results for.
And if we open this up again we can see a preview of what those keywords are even how much it costs
per click the monthly costs that they spend on them so we can see the breakdown of the budget the monthly
searches their odd position the total number VADs cetera.
So even just coming in here and saying okay well I typed in digital marketing courses but they're also
paying to appear for Digital Marketing courses online digital marking certification curriculum developments.
So that's not something I would have thought of straight away.
But obviously you can see this reveals the most profitable Kieran's in this report.
So we can see that their estimated budget then is about five grand.
And then this scheme does help really formulate your strategy really quickly by just looking at competitors
scrolling down the page a little bit more.
We can see their competition in terms of organic and paid.
And again we can click into say all of these tools we're going to go a level deeper and really get the
same report for them as well.
So amazing amazing tool.
You can start with one competitor and figure out a whole lot of information about other competitors.
You see shared keywords etc..
Now you might be wondering how do they actually get all this information.
Obviously this digital marketing Institute is not just going to hand over this information and say here's
our most profitable keywords and this is how much we spend and here's our exact strategy.
Just take it easy they're not going to do that.
So how does this to get the information.
Well it's really smart.
What they do.
If we open up the page keywords report is they actually take a screen shot of pretty much every page
on Google.
So if we come into the keyword we kicked down our view cached surp.
So the search results we can see that they've taken a screen shot and that in this screen shot they
see that this company is advertising here.
And then they scrape that data obviously put it into their database and they know that they're paying
for that keyword and the position that they're ranking et cetera.
So it's a release sophisticated and a pretty complex system that they set up.
But what it means really for you is that you can come into this tool really get an insight into your
competitors see how much they're spending.
See what keywords they're spending on see what the most profitable ones are.
It's a really amazing tool if you use it.
I guarantee you you're going to cut your learning curve in half in terms of forming your own outward
strategies and you're going to save a ton of money because you don't have to waste a lot of money figuring
I had it all works.
Just look at maybe two three five competitors you'll have a much clearer strategy before you even open
it.
Words can't.